Storefront API delegate access token storage (#1994)
Shopify/hydrogen: docs/deployment.md

To learn how to deploy your Hydrogen storefront to Netlify, refer to the [Hydrogen on Netlify](https://docs.netlify.com/integrations/frameworks/hydrogen/) documentation.

> Caution:

> > To avoid rate limiting on server requests to the Storefront API, you need to create a delegate access token and store it in the private environment variable `PRIVATE_SHOPIFY_STOREFRONT_API_TOKEN`. [Learn more](#avoid-rate-limiting-in-production).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> To [avoid rate limiting](#avoid-rate-limiting-in-production) on server requests to the Storefront API, you need to create a delegate access token and store it in the private environment variable `PRIVATE_SHOPIFY_STOREFRONT_API_TOKEN`.
```

Reviewer: Instead of adding this note to each applicable deployment section, maybe we can simplify and add this in a single instance to the `Requirements` section in the topic?

Author: Yep that works! I was assuming that people would pay more attention to it if it was colocated with the runtime section, but putting in requirements is tidier, easier to maintain, and is pretty clear imo

> > To avoid rate limiting on server requests to the Storefront API, you need to create a delegate access token for server requests to the Storefront API and store it in the private environment variable `PRIVATE_SHOPIFY_STOREFRONT_API_TOKEN`. [Learn how](#avoid-rate-limiting-in-production).

Reviewer 2: Ongoing discussion on removing `SHOPIFY` portion of the variable name

## Deploy to Vercel

To learn how to deploy your Hydrogen storefront to Vercel Edge Functions, refer to the [Vercel Hydrogen template](https://vercel.com/new/clone?s=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fvercel%2Fvercel%2Ftree%2Fmain%2Fexamples%2Fhydrogen&template=hydrogen) documentation.

> Caution:

> > To avoid rate limiting on server requests to the Storefront API, you need to create a delegate access token and store it in the private environment variable `PRIVATE_SHOPIFY_STOREFRONT_API_TOKEN`. [Learn more](#avoid-rate-limiting-in-production).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> To [avoid rate limiting](#avoid-rate-limiting-in-production) on server requests to the Storefront API, you need to create a delegate access token and store it in the private environment variable `PRIVATE_SHOPIFY_STOREFRONT_API_TOKEN`.
```

Reviewer: Potential to remove this note and move the information up to the `Requirements` section.

Author: Done

{% endcodeblock %}

### Configure a delegate access token

> To avoid rate limiting on server requests to the Storefront API, you need to create a delegate access token for server requests, stored in a private environment variable. [Learn how](#avoid-rate-limiting-in-production).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To [avoid rate limiting](#avoid-rate-limiting-in-production) on server requests to the Storefront API, you need to create a delegate access token and store it in the private environment variable `PRIVATE_SHOPIFY_STOREFRONT_API_TOKEN`.
```

Reviewer: Potential to remove this note and move the information up to the `Requirements` section.

Author: Done

    {% endcodeblock %}

> 1. Create and store a delegate access token for server requests to the Storefront API. [Learn how](#avoid-rate-limiting-in-production).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Create and store a delegate access token](#avoid-rate-limiting-in-production) for server requests to the Storefront API.
```

Reviewer: Potential to remove this step and move it up to the `Requirements` section.

1. In the Hydrogen configuration file, set the private token using the variable `PRIVATE_SHOPIFY_STOREFRONT_API_TOKEN`.

    {% codeblock file, filename: 'hydrogen.config.ts' %}

    ```tsx
    export default defineConfig({
      privateStorefrontToken:
      /* In this example, the environment variable is stored in `Oxygen.env`.
         If you're not deploying to Oxygen, then you can choose a different storage location.*/
        Oxygen?.env?.PRIVATE_SHOPIFY_STOREFRONT_API_TOKEN,
    });
    ```

    {% endcodeblock %}

1. If you're deploying to a non-Oxygen runtime, include the `storefrontId` prop in the [Hydrogen config](https://shopify.dev/custom-storefronts/hydrogen/framework/hydrogen-config) and set its value to the storefront ID's public environment variable.

    {% codeblock file, filename: 'hydrogen.config.ts' %}

    ```tsx
    export default defineConfig({
      /* In this example, the environment variable is stored in `Oxygen.env`.
         Because you're not deploying to Oxygen, you can choose a different storage location.*/
      storefrontId: Oxygen?.env?.PUBLIC_SHOPIFY_STOREFRONT_ID
    });
    ```

    {% endcodeblock %}

>     > Note:

Reviewer: Might be worthwhile updating this to a `Caution` to indicate the breakage possibility?

>     > Note:

Author: yep good call. I think that's how I had it originally. D'oh.

    + "build": "shopify hydrogen build --entry worker",
    ```

> 1. Create and store a delegate access token for server requests to the Storefront API. [Learn how](#avoid-rate-limiting-in-production).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Create and store a delegate access token](#avoid-rate-limiting-in-production) for server requests to the Storefront API.
```

Reviewer: Potential to remove this step and move it up to the `Requirements` section.

1. Deploy your project with [Wrangler](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/cli-wrangler/install-update):

    ```bash
    CF_ACCOUNT_ID=<YOUR_CLOUDFLARE_ACCT_ID> wrangler publish
    ```

## Avoid rate limiting in production

> This is a necessary step if you are deploying to a non-Oxygen runtime. Learn [why this step is required](/https://shopify.dev/custom-storefronts/hydrogen/framework/environment-variables#store-server-tokens-as-private-variables).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a necessary step if you're deploying to a non-Oxygen runtime. Learn [why this step is required](/https://shopify.dev/custom-storefronts/hydrogen/framework/environment-variables#use-storefront-api-server-tokens).
```

1. Create a [delegate access token](https://shopify.dev/apps/auth/oauth/delegate-access-tokens) for the Storefront API.

> 1. [Store the token](https://vitejs.dev/guide/env-and-mode.html#env-files) in a private environment variable in `Oxygen.env`.

Reviewer 2: I don't think it makes sense to tell them to put it into `Oxygen.env`. If they aren't deploying to Oxygen, might as well put it wherever they want. I'd say just

> [Store the token](https://vitejs.dev/guide/env-and-mode.html#env-files) in a private environment variable: `PRIVATE_SHOPIFY_STOREFRONT_API_TOKEN`

Author: Look at making corollary changes to environment-variables.md

> 1. Set the private token using the global `Oxygen.env` object in the Hydrogen configuration:

Reviewer 2: Then update to mention just the variable, not the global `Oxygen.env`

Author: I'm guessing corollary changes are required for the public variable too, correct? [For example](https://github.com/Shopify/hydrogen/pull/1994/files#diff-7f6254f34e124b6ff67f63aacb73b5252aa8e2b8afe712f48cdd3b32a24f908cR385)

> 1. In the Hydrogen configuration, set the private token using the variable `PRIVATE_SHOPIFY_STOREFRONT_API_TOKEN`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the Hydrogen configuration file, set the private token using the variable `PRIVATE_SHOPIFY_STOREFRONT_API_TOKEN`.
```

Author: Based on the Hydrogen docs repo, `hydrogen configuration` is valid. Happy to make this change here though, as personally I think it's clearer.

    {% codeblock file, filename: 'hydrogen.config.ts' %}

    ```tsx
    export default defineConfig({
      privateStorefrontToken:

>         Oxygen?.env?.PRIVATE_SHOPIFY_STOREFRONT_API_TOKEN,

Reviewer 2: And this would be updated too

Author: Any delimiters or path variables required?

e.g. `{path}.{path}.PRIVATE_SHOPIFY_STOREFRONT_API_TOKEN`?

My vote would be to remain opinionated in the docs. This makes the docs simpler to write and maintain. We can always say that they can store it anywhere and that we're providing this as an example. What do you think? @blittle @mcvinci

Reviewer: @rennyG I'm on board with referencing that they can be stored anywhere, and explicitly stating that we're providing an example.

    });
    ```

    {% endcodeblock %}

> 1. In the Hydrogen configuration, set the `storefrontId` using the variable `PUBLIC_SHOPIFY_STOREFRONT_ID`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the Hydrogen configuration file, set the `storefrontId` using the variable `PUBLIC_SHOPIFY_STOREFRONT_ID`.
```
